Add a post on FCMP(++)s (#2289)
monero-project/monero-site: _posts/2024-04-27-fcmps.md

---
layout: post
title: Full-Chain Membership Proofs Development
summary: A CCS to develop Full-Chain Membership Proofs has been successfully funded.
tags: [crypto, community]
author: Luke "Kayaba" Parker
---

> Full-Chain Membership Proofs, as a concept, is a replacement for rings within the Monero protocol. While rings have offered sender privacy to Monero since it launched, they're vulnerable to attacks such as the [EAE attack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iABIcsDJKyM&list=PLsSYUeVwrHBnAUre2G_LYDsdo-tD0ov-y&index=9&pp=iAQB), [have difficulties upon chain reorganzations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CVcirD90pg&list=PLsSYUeVwrHBnAUre2G_LYDsdo-tD0ov-y&index=4&pp=iAQB), and in general enable statistical analysis (mitigated by distribution of the decoy selection algorithm). Full-Chain Membership Proofs prove the output spent is one of _any_ output on the chain, effectively removing all of these risks. This means every input goes from an immediate anonymity set of 16 to 100,000,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full-Chain Membership Proofs, as a concept, is a replacement for rings within the Monero protocol. While rings have offered sender privacy to Monero since it launched, they're vulnerable to attacks such as the [EAE attack](https://www.yewtu.be/watch?v=iABIcsDJKyM&list=PLsSYUeVwrHBnAUre2G_LYDsdo-tD0ov-y&index=9&pp=iAQB), [have difficulties upon chain reorganzations](https://www.yewtu.be/watch?v=6CVcirD90pg&list=PLsSYUeVwrHBnAUre2G_LYDsdo-tD0ov-y&index=4&pp=iAQB), and in general enable statistical analysis (mitigated by distribution of the decoy selection algorithm). Full-Chain Membership Proofs prove the output spent is one of _any_ output on the chain, effectively removing all of these risks. This means every input goes from an immediate anonymity set of 16 to 100,000,000.
```

Author: NACK, unless this is policy. Several Invidious incidents recently stopped working as Youtube cracks down on adblocking services, so I'd rather point to the canonical source.

> Full-Chain Membership Proofs, as a concept, is a replacement for rings within the Monero protocol. While rings have offered sender privacy to Monero since it launched, they're vulnerable to attacks such as the [EAE attack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iABIcsDJKyM&list=PLsSYUeVwrHBnAUre2G_LYDsdo-tD0ov-y&index=9&pp=iAQB), [have difficulties upon chain reorganzations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CVcirD90pg&list=PLsSYUeVwrHBnAUre2G_LYDsdo-tD0ov-y&index=4&pp=iAQB), and in general enable statistical analysis (mitigated by distribution of the decoy selection algorithm). Full-Chain Membership Proofs prove the output spent is one of _any_ output on the chain, effectively removing all of these risks. This means every input goes from an immediate anonymity set of 16 to 100,000,000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Full-Chain Membership Proofs, as a concept, is a replacement for rings within the Monero protocol. While rings have offered sender privacy to Monero since it launched, they're vulnerable to attacks such as the [EAE attack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iABIcsDJKyM), [have difficulties upon chain reorganzations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6CVcirD90pg), and in general enable statistical analysis (mitigated by distribution of the decoy selection algorithm). Full-Chain Membership Proofs prove the output spent is one of _any_ output on the chain, effectively removing all of these risks. This means every input goes from an immediate anonymity set of 16 to 100,000,000.
```

are we intentionally linking to the playlist instead of the video?

Author: Sorry for not replying earlier (though this was after merge, so no real need to comment, it'd need to be a new PR). I don't believe linking to the playlist is an issue and personally would argue it preferable for the context of and further education within Breaking Monero.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, i didnt see the PR until after merge

I agree with that sentiment, but (dont shoot) non canonical players like newpipe open the playlist, instead of the specific video on the playlist. 

as such (being a non-canon player), i didn't request changes. Only wondering whether intentional. 

thanks

Author: Oh. Sorry, and thanks for the context. That may change my future preference on formatting...

> Two proposals have been made for Monero offering such privacy, both under the "Full-Chain Membership Proofs" moniker (further mentions acronymed to "FCMPs"). The first was announced at [MoneroKon in 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrCAiLPfXlg), and was intended to be deployed with/after [Seraphis](https://www.getmonero.org/2021/12/22/what-is-seraphis.html). Seraphis distinguished between "membership", the output spent is one of some outputs, and "spend authorization", the output being spent is authorized by the private key holder. With that, much more efficient proofs for membership became possible, including the "Grootle" proofs it was originally proposed with (effectively a ring of 128). FCMPs further improved upon this, requiring Seraphis's new key/transaction format to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two proposals have been made for Monero offering such privacy, both under the "Full-Chain Membership Proofs" moniker (further mentions acronymed to "FCMPs"). The first was announced at [MoneroKon in 2023](https://www.yewtu.be/watch?v=vrCAiLPfXlg), and was intended to be deployed with/after [Seraphis](https://www.getmonero.org/2021/12/22/what-is-seraphis.html). Seraphis distinguished between "membership", the output spent is one of some outputs, and "spend authorization", the output being spent is authorized by the private key holder. With that, much more efficient proofs for membership became possible, including the "Grootle" proofs it was originally proposed with (effectively a ring of 128). FCMPs further improved upon this, requiring Seraphis's new key/transaction format to do so.
```

> Two proposals have been made for Monero offering such privacy, both under the "Full-Chain Membership Proofs" moniker (further mentions acronymed to "FCMPs"). The first was announced at [MoneroKon in 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrCAiLPfXlg), and was intended to be deployed with/after [Seraphis](https://www.getmonero.org/2021/12/22/what-is-seraphis.html). Seraphis distinguished between "membership", the output spent is one of some outputs, and "spend authorization", the output being spent is authorized by the private key holder. With that, much more efficient proofs for membership became possible, including the "Grootle" proofs it was originally proposed with (effectively a ring of 128). FCMPs further improved upon this, requiring Seraphis's new key/transaction format to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two proposals have been made for Monero offering such privacy, both under the "Full-Chain Membership Proofs" moniker (further mentions acronymed to "FCMPs"). The first was announced at [MoneroKon in 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrCAiLPfXlg), and was intended to be deployed with/after [Seraphis]({{ site.baseurl }}/2021/12/22/what-is-seraphis.html). Seraphis distinguished between "membership", the output spent is one of some outputs, and "spend authorization", the output being spent is authorized by the private key holder. With that, much more efficient proofs for membership became possible, including the "Grootle" proofs it was originally proposed with (effectively a ring of 128). FCMPs further improved upon this, requiring Seraphis's new key/transaction format to do so.
```

Forward secrecy means an adversary with a discrete log oracle, such as an adversary with a quantum computer, cannot break the privacy of the protocol.

While Seraphis also introduces all of these features, it does so with a migration to a new anonymity set and a new address format (invalidating all prior addresses). The FCMP++ proposal not only aims to be faster to deploy yet to do so without the migration. This is enabled by the trade-off of not actually offering any of this functionality at launch however.

The deployed protocol would support all of these features. The wallet code to take advantage of it would be delayed, ensuring that we keep our scope small and achieve the largest goal, full sender privacy, as soon as possible. Wallets could then start taking advantage of these features on their own timeline, without further hard forks nor privacy issues. This would likely be done by merging the Seraphis codebase into Monero, taking advantage of its years of development and improved design. With that, the migration to the new key structures would be optional, and if so, the work done for FCMP++s would provide most of the necessary work for FCMPs with Seraphis.

> FCMP++s are based off [Curve Trees](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/756), and to make the overall proof much more efficient, [Eagen's work with elliptic curve divisors](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/596). The [overall composition](https://github.com/kayabaNerve/fcmp-ringct/) has been largely specified, and is currently being reviewed and further detailed as appropriate. [The development of the composition was funded](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/fcmp++-development.html), and an [earmarked fund for academic review and auditing is still raising](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/fcmp++-research.html). If you are a member of the academic community and are interested in contributing, please feel free to reach out within the [Monero Research Lab on IRC or Matrix](https://www.getmonero.org/community/workgroups/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FCMP++s are based off [Curve Trees](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/756), and to make the overall proof much more efficient, [Eagen's work with elliptic curve divisors](https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/596). The [overall composition](https://github.com/kayabaNerve/fcmp-ringct/) has been largely specified, and is currently being reviewed and further detailed as appropriate. [The development of the composition was funded](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/fcmp++-development.html), and an [earmarked fund for academic review and auditing is still raising](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/fcmp++-research.html). If you are a member of the academic community and are interested in contributing, please feel free to reach out within the [Monero Research Lab on IRC or Matrix](https://www.getmonero.org/community/workgroups/).
```
